# Nix outputs

This section documents the outputs made available from the project `flake.nix`.
See <project:/home/nix-basics.md> for more information.

## Packages

Intended for use with `nix build`.

### `default`

A package containing all core software.

### `simulation`

Same as the `default` package, but contains everything needed to run simulation as well.

### `pkgs`

This is the entire `nixpkgs` output, as well as all project package outputs (through overlays).
Having it available can make certain debugging easier.

Specific useful packages/package sets are documented below.

### `pkgs.rosPackages.${rosDistro}`

All ROS packages for a specific distro.
Packages which contain spaces or underscores in their name have those replaced with dashes.
The packages for the project's target distro will also be modified to add all the ROS2 packages in this workspace - for example, if targeting ROS2 Jazzy, the autonomy package would be accessible under `pkgs.rosPackages.jazzy.autonomy`.

:::{example}
To use `ros2_control` from ROS Rolling Ridley: `pkgs.rosPackages.rolling.ros2-control`.
:::
:::{warning}
If you use these packages with `nix shell`, be aware that packages which apply modifications to the ROS2 CLI may not add the verb correctly.
:::

### `pkgs.ros`

The entire ROS package set of the distro we're using.
Includes the packages in development.
This is the recommended way to access packages in development if you want to pull specific ones out for `nix build` or `nix shell`.

:::{example}
To use the workspace `autonomy` package: `pkgs.ros.autonomy`.
:::

### `tools.treefmt-write-config`

Intended for use with `nix run`.
Writes the configuration generated by [`treefmt-nix`](https://github.com/numtide/treefmt-nix) to `treefmt.toml` in the repo root.

### `tools.treefmt-build`

The `treefmtEval.config.build` set generated by [`treefmt-nix`](https://github.com/numtide/treefmt-nix).

### `scripts`

Scripts intended for use with `nix run`.
Also available at `pkgs.scripts` (due to being applied as an overlay).

## Executables

Intended for use with `nix run`. Most of these can be found under the `apps` section of the `flake.nix`.

### `default`

The default executable is the perseus launch file, so this is equivalent to `nix run .#perseus`. It can also be run using `nix run`, which runs the default executable.

### `perseus`

Default nix executable. Runs the perseus ros2 launch file found at `software/ros_ws/src/perseus/launch/perseus.launch.py`

### `perseus-lite`

Launches the perseus-lite ros2 nodes - runs the launch file found at `software/ros_ws/src/perseus_lite/launch/perseus_lite.launch.py`

### `generic_controller`

Runs the generic_controller launch file found at `software/ros_ws/src/perseus_input/launch/controller.launch.py`. For more info on this executable, see <project:/home/perseus-operation/teleop.md>.

### `ros2`

ROS2 core executable from the `default` package.

### `clean`

Convenience alias of [`scripts.clean`](#scripts-clean)

(scripts-clean)=

### `scripts.clean`

Runs `software/scripts/clean.sh` to remove all generated/build directories from the workspace.

### `scripts.cachix`

Scripts to push build targets to Cachix.
Current sub-attributes available:

- `build`: Main build
- `shell`: Dev shell environment
- `all`: Both `build` and `shell`, as well packages for simulation
- `docs-shell`: Shell environment for building the documentation

:::{note}
This requires a Cachix auth token to succeed.
Contact James N if you need one.
:::

### `nixpkgs`

You can access all [`nixpkgs`](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/tree/master/pkgs) through this. You might not have the newest version of `nixpkgs` depending on our `flake.lock` file, but this means you don't need to install a program that you only need to use once or twice.

## Development shells

Intended for use with `nix develop`.

### `default`

Workspace containing everything needed to build and run the core software.

### `simulation`

Same as the `default` dev shell, but extended with the packages needed to run simulation.
